And it's time now to move
to the third question.
And what's just so exciting
is that the change that we're
talking about is not some
anticipated phenomenon
in the world, but it's
actually happening now.
So the third question
is, what's emerging?
And to ground ourselves
and what's emerging,
it's also useful to look
at the context of history.
And if we look back over
the sweep of history,
we see that there
have been periods when
particular ways of being
or particular empires,
particular established orders
have seemed immutable, seemed
immovable, seemed
stuck, and you couldn't
imagine that the situation
of the moment could change.
But actually, we've had
some fantastic examples
of the complete
overthrow of what
seemed like a permanent order.
And I think of the
think of the time
when Gandhi and the Indians
threw the British out of India.
I think about that.
I think about the overthrow
of the Berlin Wall.
And I bet you could think
of some other examples
where things that seemed like
they would never shift, did so.
And I wonder if anybody can
think of examples right now.
Currently, with the
Egyptian revolution
and the Arab Awakening.
The election of Barack Obama.
The food movement
that's emerging,
as least that I've notice
in this country and others.
There's the grassroots
organization
of people going
back to the earth
and growing their own
food, which is huge.
Whole cities and city
councils are getting very much
behind complete
recycling programs
as they are here in Boulder.
The whole shift in
the automotive industry
and in the trucking industry
with Smith Electric, Ford,
Tesla moving towards
electric and hybrid vehicles.
The incredible creation
of new kinds of technology
to create energy from clean
sources and in clean ways.
The V-Day movement,
which is designed
to end violence against
women and girls globally.
Social media--
it's allowing people
that didn't think
their one voice
counted to assemble in groups.
Yes, it's all emerging.
A lot of it's really
rapid and exciting.
Now that we understand how
profoundly connected everything
is, we're going to look at
what that makes possible
and what is emerging now.
The emergence of
a new dream isn't
something that's going
to happen in the future;
it's already happening.
I believe that we're living
in what some people would call
the "great turning,"
the "great transition,"
or the "turning of the tide."
As you can see, it's happening
now, and you're part of it.
Let's take a look.
MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR:
Let us remember that there
is a creative for us in
this universe of power that
is able to make a
way out of no way
and transform dark yesterdays
into bright tomorrows.
Let us realize that arc of
the moral universe is long,
but it bends toward justice.
There is a tendency
to think that what
we see in the present
moment will continue.
We forget how often
we've been astonished
by the sudden crumbling
of institutions,
by extraordinary changes
in people's thoughts,
by unexpected eruptions of
rebellion against tyrannies,
by the quick collapse
of systems of power
that seemed invincible.
What leaps out from the
history of the past 100 years
is it's utter unpredictability.
Demonstrations in Russia
were totally illegal.
After one second holding
the banner in front of you,
you would be arrested.
But we did it once,
and we did it twice,
and then we do the three times.
And a year later demonstrations
were a common thing
on the streets of Moscow.
We didn't believe that
we can change anything,
but we did it anyway.
After many centuries
of warfare in Europe,
you could have
imagined the emergence
of a political
and economic power
that is now the European Union?
And in a country with a history
of slavery and segregation,
who could have predicted
that a man of color
would be elected its president?
Or that a nation would
publicly apologize
for the wrongs committed
against its first peoples?
We apologize for
the laws and policies
of successive parliaments
and governments
that have inflicted
profound grief, suffering,
and loss on these, our
fellow Australians.
For the pain, suffering and hurt
of these stolen generations,
we say, sorry.
Many, many years ago I
interviewed Desmond Tutu
prior to the end of apartheid.
And he kept saying,
"when we end apartheid."
And I kept thinking, yeah,
right, like dream on.
I mean, I didn't want to rain
on his parade or anything,
but in my heart of hearts I
thought, not in your lifetime.
And lo and behold, a year and
a half later, it was over.
So it was a really profound
lesson about what can happen
when the will of people aligns.
We have defeated awful things
like Nazism, like apartheid.
And we've seen some wonderful
human beings-- Mahatma Gandhi,
the Dalai Lama, Mother Teresa.
What that says is that
ultimately good prevails.
It is a moral universe,
despite all appearances
to the contrary.
[LAUGHS] It is that
there's no way in which
evil will ultimately triumph.
Many experts are convinced
that humanity already possesses
the resources and
technology to solve
our most pressing environmental
and social problems.
We know how to do these things.
This is not a great mystery.
We don't have to do research
for the next 20 years
to figure out what to do.
We know what to do.
We think it'll take
about $200 billion a year
to stabilize population,
eradicate poverty,
and restore the
economy's natural support
systems over the next decade.
That's a lot.
But when you compare it
with military budgets,
it's really not that much.
It is less than a third
of the US military budget.
It is roughly an eighth of
the global military budget.
So we can't say we
don't have the resources
to save civilization.
We do.
The ideas, technologies,
and policies
that will lead to a
new future are already
emerging in government,
business, and civil society,
as well as in people's personal
lives throughout the world.
[SPEAKING SPANISH]
The United Nations'
Millennium Development Goals
represent a worldwide effort to
end hunger and poverty by 2015.
Businesses and
corporations are recognizing
that success in the
21st century means
paying attention to the
triple bottom line--
people, planet, and profit.
The world's largest
corporation has announced
aspirational goals to be 100%
renewable energy, zero waste,
and sell only
sustainable products.
60,000 to 90,000 companies
that sell products to Walmart
will now have to
show that they are
measuring and tracking
their carbon footprint
and beginning to reduce it.
A lot of people think
the trash is inevitable.
It's one of those
necessary evils of life.
But that's not true.
Waste is actually the
product of bad design,
and bad design can be changed.
Innovative design is also
creating low-tech solutions
for the developing world.
At the heart of the
transition to a new world
are the communities,
families, and individuals who
are changing the way they are
living, making new choices
based on the values that support
a more sustainable, just,
and fulfilling society.
When we think about
global warming,
we think about
transportation, we
think about we heat our houses.
But, in fact, how we
eat has just as big
an impact on climate change.
Everywhere on planet
Earth in cities and towns,
suburbs and villages, a vast and
unprecedented global phenomenon
is beginning to
make itself known.
There is another
superpower here on Earth
that is an unnamed movement.
It is far different and bigger
and more unique than anything
we have ever seen.
It flies under the radar
of the media, by and large.
It is nonviolent.
It is grassroots.
It has no cluster bombs, no
armies, and no helicopters.
It has no central ideology.
A male vertebrate
is not in charge.
[LAUGHTER]
This unnamed movement--
you can clap for that.
[APPLAUSE]
The very word "movement" is
too small to describe it.
This is humanity's immune
response to resist and heal
political disease,
economic infection,
and ecological corruption
caused by ideologies.
This is fundamentally a
civil rights movement,
a human rights movement.
This is a democracy movement.
It is the coming world.
What you're seeing
here is the beginning
of a list of the two million
organizations in the world that
did work toward social
and environmental justice,
and that's a minimum.
To give you a sense of how big
this movement is, if I start
this tape today at 9:00 AM
and we watch this all day
and all night and
the day after that,
and then we watch it
for three more weeks
and then another
month after that,
we still would not
have seen the names
of all the groups in the world.
It's the largest social movement
in the history of human kind,
by far.
Powering this growing
global phenomenon
is the explosive
digital revolution
that is revealing and connecting
a planetary human community.
People can now be
connected nationwide
to act locally in
their communities
and then have all that local
action united into one,
synchronized, beautiful,
harmonic voice.
The only voice we have
it this video editing.
We don't know books,
so we can't write much.
But if we are able to do a
small film of what is happening
to us, it will go the
internet and the whole world
will see it.
We have the technologies,
policies, and initiatives
to move us toward
a thriving future.
All that's missing is something
that only human beings can
provide-- the commitment,
the collective
will to change our direction.
Awake committed people
are galvanizing that will
and becoming who they need to
be to make it happen together.
And this is just a
tiny fraction of what's
happening around the world.
It's just such an exciting
time for us to be alive.
And some people say that
inside of a commitment
to work for a world
that works maybe
the biggest crisis
we have is a crisis
of imagination and creativity.
And given our commitment with
creativity, with inspiration,
we can fashion all
of the solutions
that we can see that
we can contribute to.
It's just an amazing time here.
And so what we're going to do
is offer us all an opportunity
to use our vision
and our creativity
in imagining a future.
What's exciting-- this is
another thing that's emerging--
is we know far much more
about how our brain operates.
And even though our elders had
been telling us for some time,
watch what you think.
Watch the images you put out.
The reality is the
body mind connection,
we're propelled there.
So we want to take
a few moments right
now to give you
some time to drop
in to do a little visioning.
Now please settle
back into your chair
and allow your eyes to
lower or gently close.
Take a breath in and let it out.
Now go out way into the
future, perhaps 40 or 50 years
from now, and see a world
where the environment is
healthy and thriving,
where people are
fulfilled and happy,
where society is just,
fair, and equitable
for everyone.
Look around you.
What do you see?
What does an
environmentally sustainable,
spiritually fulfilling,
and socially justice
human presence look like?
Now see yourself
sitting in a circle with
your great-great-grandchildren.
Or if you don't have children,
the great-great-grandchildren
of children you know and love.
You're sitting on
a grassy knoll.
And as you look around, you see
a variety of different cultures
and skin color as these
beautiful children ask you,
what was it like for you when
the world was in crisis way
back when the Earth's
ecosystems were unraveling,
when there was so much inequity
and injustice and oppression
still affecting so
many people's lives
and there was starvation
and war in the human family?
Now allow these children and
the great-great-grandchildren
of all species to thank you,
appreciate you, and acknowledge
you for playing a role
in the "great turning"
and for seizing the opportunity
and not going back to sleep.
Let them thank you.
Let them embrace you.
Please take a breath and
then gently open your eyes.
Welcome back to the room.
I can always feel that
outpouring of imagination
and creativity, and
I wonder if there
are a couple of people who
have a vision they'd like
to share with the rest of us.
I saw a moments
in future where I
was surrounded by my
descendants, and they said,
what was the big change?
And I said, there came a moment
when almost everyone started
cooperating for what
needed to happen,
and they stopped cooperating
for what shouldn't be happening.